Attached, you find a very simple Angular project where I essentially only have three links that take
me to different pages for two different user IDs here and to the home page.
Now of course, there is one thing we already learned about in the routing section and that can be found
in the user component
which you find here in the user folder and that attached project. In the user.component.ts file,
of course I have already set up a subscription to listen to changing route parameters so that if I am
on the user page as I am here because User 1 and User 2 share the same component,
if I'm here and I have the user ID 1 loaded and I click on user 2, this updates here in the DOM even
though it technically is the same component and that is something you learned about in a routing section.
Now this is using an observable, params here is an observable to which we subscribe and that's just
one thing you can already keep in memory, observables are constructs to which you subscribe to be
informed about the changes in data because remember, observables are that stream of data and whenever a new
data piece is emitted, our subscription will know about it.
So in this case here, params is the observable,
it's a stream of route parameters and that stream gives us a new route parameter whenever we go to
a new page, whenever that parameter in the URL changes
and then here in this function we pass
to subscribe, we get the new params and we can extract our relevant param,
in this case the ID param from that.
So that's how this built-in observable works and how you can think about it,
params is the observable, it's that stream of data that gives us new values.
Now that's all nice and Angular will heavily use such observables and there you will never need
to create them yourselves,
you only subscribe to them, you don't need to create them but to understand them, it certainly doesn't
hurt to also create them.
So let's do that as a next step,
let's build our own observable from the ground up and understand its internals.